part_2_starting_with_common_interactions.md, before:

### Part 2:  Starting with common interactions

1.  Fork the DrinkOrderApp repository ([bit.ly/CnCDrinkApp](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCDrinkApp&sa=D&ust=1478465001097000&usg=AFQjCNH9ExQF2ZKCvBQ0aNG3T7FYe9xDwQ)) to your own account.

1.  Clone the repository to your computer using Git Bash (Windows)  or iTerm2 (Macs) and checkout the **jquery-master branch** to have a clean starting point for tonight’s project.

1.  Open the **index.html** file in Google Chrome and try clicking the buttons.  Not very exciting yet, is it?

1.  Open the **DrinkOrderApp folder** in Sublime Text.
 **Hint**: Check out our *#codingandcocktails* Slack channel at [kcwit.slack.com](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://kcwit.slack.com&sa=D&ust=1478465001101000&usg=AFQjCNFMSx87xEDMJXGjwC-ldhqmr9aXXg) and search for &quot;Coding &amp; Cocktails tip of the week&quot; (quotes included) for a reminder on how to open the whole project folder for easy access to all of your project files as you work.

1.  First we need to connect our HTML and our JavaScript.  This is similar to connecting our CSS files with `<link>` tags as we discussed in the HTML &amp; CSS session as well as in the CSS Compiler session but with a different HTML tag.

  1.  Add a `<script>` tag for the jQuery library ([jquery-1.12.3.min.js](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://github.com/KansasCityWomeninTechnology/DrinkOrderApp/blob/jquery-master/assets/lib/jquery-1.12.3.min.js&sa=D&ust=1478465001104000&usg=AFQjCNGu8qGW-WYNlBHwzlzR9ABIcGKm3A) found in the **assets/lib** folder)  in the `<head>` section of the **index.html** page.

      `<script src="assets/lib/jquery-1.12.3.min.js"></script>`

   1.  Add a `<script>` tag with a `src` attribute  for your script file (**my-scripts.js** found in the **assets/scripts** folder) in the `<head>` section of the **index.html** page  - Remember, order matters! Hint: [bit.ly/scriptElement](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/scriptElement&sa=D&ust=1478465001107000&usg=AFQjCNGGBgb6RmAH_zRr5ahiZPKi8HOWeg) or [bit.ly/StartjQuery](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/StartjQuery&sa=D&ust=1478465001108000&usg=AFQjCNGrFFQhedkvMZmSRc6-7458mBCZ4A)

1.  Open **my-scripts.js** in Sublime Text from the assets/scripts folder. This is where you’ll be adding your jQuery code.

1.  First we need to make sure we wait until our HTML document is ready before we run anything on it.  Remember we do this using `$(document).ready();`  Hint: [bit.ly/docReady](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/docReady&sa=D&ust=1478465001110000&usg=AFQjCNFPlR8KVar8yLLamN-w76KLh-3Fxw) Don’t forget that we need a function in there so we can actually run our code!

1.  We’ll want to be able to see our menu so we need to make the “Show Menu” button function properly.  When we click the button we want to display the `#menu` div.

  1.  First we have to capture the event inside your `$(document).ready(function () { ... });` code in **my-scripts.js**

      1.  Select your button (check out index.html to find the button’s id to select)
      2.  Add the click event handler to the button.
   Hint: `$(“#my-id”).click();`

  1.  Next we have to add our action:

      1.  Inside of the click event handler we need to add the function to run the action we’re going to do.  This is similar to how we created the function to run when the document is ready. Hint: `$(“#my-id”).click(function () { … });`

      1.  Inside of that function, select the element you want to act on, in this case the #menu div.
      2.  Add a jQuery action to show that HTML div. **Hint:** `$("#my-id").show();`

1.  Refresh the open index.html in Google Chrome and try clicking the Show button.  It should display a menu when you click on it.

1.  Now that we’ve displayed the menu we want to be able to hide it when we don’t want to see it. Hide the `#menu` div element when the hide menu button is clicked in **my-scripts.js**.  This will be very similar to what we just did with the show menu button but a different action on the div.

  1.  First we have to capture the event:

      1.  Select your button (check out index.html to find the button’s id to select)
      2.  Add the click event handler to the button. Hint: [bit.ly/CnCClick](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCClick&sa=D&ust=1478465001119000&usg=AFQjCNGFLGYK72Z48aU6ZdHoxPLn8iGxog)

  1.  Next we have to add our action:

      1.  Inside of the click event handler we need to add the function to run the action we’re going to do.  This is similar to how we created the function to run when the document is ready.
      2.  Inside of that function, select the element you want to act on, in this case the `#menu` div. **Hint:** [bit.ly/CnCSelect](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCSelect&sa=D&ust=1478465001120000&usg=AFQjCNGaRchbzwN8596cSVEIHMgC15TjMw)
      3.  Add a jQuery action to show that HTML div.** Hint:** [bit.ly/CnCHide](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCHide&sa=D&ust=1478465001121000&usg=AFQjCNF9S4iE-RvWIXx6KJXlfMajErm5JA)

      **You’ve added your first interactivity to your website! Celebrate with a toast with your neighbor!**

1.  Next we’re going to practice another common interaction on web pages: changing element styling triggered by an event.  When the checkbox next to a drink is selected, make the background of the drink label change colors.

  1.  First we have to capture the event:

      1.  Select your check box.  Look at the HTML to see what this structure like.  We’ll need to utilize CSS attribute selectors this time.  These look like `cssElement[“attribute=value”]`  **Hint:** [bit.ly/AttrSel](http://bit.ly/AttrSel)  Don’t know what an attribute is?  Check this out: [http://bit.ly/Attribs](http://bit.ly/Attribs)
      2.  Add the click event handler like we did in step 8.a.ii. Hint: [bit.ly/CnCClick](http://bit.ly/CnCClick)

   1.  Next we have to add our action:

      1.  Inside of the click event handler we need to add the function to run the action we’re going to do.  This is similar to how we created the function to run when the document is ready.
      2.  Inside of that function, this time we’re going to need the input’s parent element: the label.  **Hint:** [bit.ly/CnCparent](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCparent&sa=D&ust=1478465001125000&usg=AFQjCNE4INDAs5xRmmQl2TP1uUcO0N0qNg)
      3.  We only want the color to show when the box is checked. There are a few ways to do this and often changing styling you’d use the `.css()` method: [bit.ly/CnCCSS](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCCSS&sa=D&ust=1478465001126000&usg=AFQjCNGX4XkLprOujxC6Yb72j_nna1rLVw).  This time since we want to add and remove it we’re just going to toggle the CSS styling class using the jQuery method `toggleClass()` Hint: [bit.ly/ToggleC](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/ToggleC&sa=D&ust=1478465001127000&usg=AFQjCNE_zKIpUHHNGJONJhbO2zFA_W4qng)  We’ve already set up the highlight class for you in the **assets/styles/main.css** file.

1.  **EXTRA CREDIT:** Make clicking the &quot;Order&quot; button get the value from the name radio button input and display it in an h1 tag inside the light purple div as &quot;{{name}}&#039;s order is ready!&quot;

    1.  First capture the event on the Order button:

      1.  Select the Order button like we’ve selected the show and hide buttons above. (check out index.html to find the button’s id to select)
      2.  Add the click event handler to the button Hint: [bit.ly/CnCClick](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCClick&sa=D&ust=1478465001130000&usg=AFQjCNE9sKnrtJJdiDZGcwrRkpyOAwaCvg)

  1.  Next we have to add our action but this time we’re going to have to save the name value so we can use it again later.

      1.  Create your **orderName** variable.  Remember when you declare a variable you must start with the `var` keyword!
      2.  We need to capture the radio button input’s value in this variable  so let’s get it selected!  Note: we only need to store the value for the input element that is “checked.” **Hint 1:** [bit.ly/CnCRadio](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCRadio&sa=D&ust=1478465001132000&usg=AFQjCNFkmjVHQ0WwM9G63fZV5-bX8fqeJw) **Hint 2:** [bit.ly/CnCChecked](http://bit.ly/CnCChecked) **Hint 3:** [bit.ly/CnCVal](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCVal&sa=D&ust=1478465001133000&usg=AFQjCNEOLMx1XT212cHayeyAbhTunDflNg) **Hint 4:** `var myVar = $("input:input-type:checked").method();`
      3.  Once you’ve stored the value in your variable you can check the value in Chrome’s Developer Tools Console tab using `console.log(orderName);` in your script file.  When you trigger that event the variable’s value will then be displayed to the console. **Hint:** [bit.ly/CnCOutput](http://bit.ly/CnCOutput)
      4.  Now that we have captured the value, we need to display that in our div section.  There are again multiple ways to do this: the `append()` method: [bit.ly/CnCAppend](http://bit.ly/CnCAppend)  and the `html()` method: [bit.ly/CnCHTML](http://bit.ly/CnCHTML), though one of these is a better choice than the other. Can you figure out why one of these is a better option?  Talk it over with a mentor if you aren’t sure! **Hint:** Try both options and push the order button multiple times for each to see what happens!

          1.  First select the **div** section you want to act on.  (find the id of the element in the **index.html** file and select it)
          2.  Next we’ll use append or html to add the **h1** tag and content inside the div.  See the “JavaScript String Operators” section of the JavaScript Operators page: [bit.ly/CnCOps](http://bit.ly/CnCOps) for a reminder on how to use your variable with other static text.

1.  When you’ve worked through each piece of interaction, compare your code to our answer key here: [bit.ly/CnCJQKey](http://bit.ly/CnCJQKey)

![](../images/drink.png)

Commit message:

Track 1 files into repository.
- modified part_2_starting_with_common_interactions.md

Auto commit by GitBook Editor

part_2_starting_with_common_interactions.md, after:

### Part 2:  Starting with common interactions

#### Setup

1.  In your CodingAndCocktails folder in your home directory, create a JavaScript folder.

2. Download the project starting point from https://github.com/KansasCityWomeninTechnology/DrinkOrderApp/archive/jquery-master.zip and put it in that JavaScript folder.

3. Unzip it. 
# TODO

3. In Atom, open the DrinkOrderApp folder by going to the File menu and choosing **Add Project Folder**. Navigate to the unzipped DrinkOrderApp folder that you created and click OK.

4.  In Google Chrome, open the **index.html** file and try clicking the buttons.  Not very exciting yet, is it?

#### Connecting HTML & JavaScript

1. Connect the HTML & the JavaScript files.

  1.  Add a `<script>` tag for the jQuery library ([jquery-1.12.3.min.js](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://github.com/KansasCityWomeninTechnology/DrinkOrderApp/blob/jquery-master/assets/lib/jquery-1.12.3.min.js&sa=D&ust=1478465001104000&usg=AFQjCNGu8qGW-WYNlBHwzlzR9ABIcGKm3A) found in the **assets/lib** folder)  in the `<head>` section of the **index.html** page.
  # TODO: Update jQuery version

      `<script src="assets/lib/jquery-1.12.3.min.js"></script>`

   1.  Add a `<script>` tag with a `src` attribute for your script file (_my-scripts.js_ found in the _assets/scripts_ folder) in the `<head>` section of the _index.html_ page  - Remember, order matters! Hint: [bit.ly/scriptElement](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/scriptElement&sa=D&ust=1478465001107000&usg=AFQjCNGGBgb6RmAH_zRr5ahiZPKi8HOWeg) or [bit.ly/StartjQuery](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/StartjQuery&sa=D&ust=1478465001108000&usg=AFQjCNGrFFQhedkvMZmSRc6-7458mBCZ4A)


#### Adding Interaction
1.  Open the _my-scripts.js_ file in Atom from the assets/scripts folder. This is where jQuery code goes.

1.  First make sure the HTML document is ready before it tries to run anything.  

Remember we do this using `$(document).ready();`  Hint: [bit.ly/docReady](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/docReady&sa=D&ust=1478465001110000&usg=AFQjCNFPlR8KVar8yLLamN-w76KLh-3Fxw) Don’t forget that we need a function in there so we can actually run our code!

1.  We’ll want to be able to see our menu so we need to make the “Show Menu” button function properly.  When we click the button we want to display the `#menu` div.

  1.  First we have to capture the event inside your `$(document).ready(function () { ... });` code in **my-scripts.js**

      1.  Select your button (check out index.html to find the button’s id to select)
      2.  Add the click event handler to the button.
   Hint: `$(“#my-id”).click();`

  1.  Next we have to add our action:

      1.  Inside of the click event handler we need to add the function to run the action we’re going to do.  This is similar to how we created the function to run when the document is ready. Hint: `$(“#my-id”).click(function () { … });`

      1.  Inside of that function, select the element you want to act on, in this case the #menu div.
      2.  Add a jQuery action to show that HTML div. **Hint:** `$("#my-id").show();`

1.  Refresh the open index.html in Google Chrome and try clicking the Show button.  It should display a menu when you click on it.

1.  Now that we’ve displayed the menu we want to be able to hide it when we don’t want to see it. Hide the `#menu` div element when the hide menu button is clicked in **my-scripts.js**.  This will be very similar to what we just did with the show menu button but a different action on the div.

  1.  First we have to capture the event:

      1.  Select your button (check out index.html to find the button’s id to select)
      2.  Add the click event handler to the button. Hint: [bit.ly/CnCClick](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCClick&sa=D&ust=1478465001119000&usg=AFQjCNGFLGYK72Z48aU6ZdHoxPLn8iGxog)

  1.  Next we have to add our action:

      1.  Inside of the click event handler we need to add the function to run the action we’re going to do.  This is similar to how we created the function to run when the document is ready.
      2.  Inside of that function, select the element you want to act on, in this case the `#menu` div. **Hint:** [bit.ly/CnCSelect](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCSelect&sa=D&ust=1478465001120000&usg=AFQjCNGaRchbzwN8596cSVEIHMgC15TjMw)
      3.  Add a jQuery action to show that HTML div.** Hint:** [bit.ly/CnCHide](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCHide&sa=D&ust=1478465001121000&usg=AFQjCNF9S4iE-RvWIXx6KJXlfMajErm5JA)

      **You’ve added your first interactivity to your website! Celebrate with a toast with your neighbor!**

1.  Next we’re going to practice another common interaction on web pages: changing element styling triggered by an event.  When the checkbox next to a drink is selected, make the background of the drink label change colors.

  1.  First we have to capture the event:

      1.  Select your check box.  Look at the HTML to see what this structure like.  We’ll need to utilize CSS attribute selectors this time.  These look like `cssElement[“attribute=value”]`  **Hint:** [bit.ly/AttrSel](http://bit.ly/AttrSel)  Don’t know what an attribute is?  Check this out: [http://bit.ly/Attribs](http://bit.ly/Attribs)
      2.  Add the click event handler like we did in step 8.a.ii. Hint: [bit.ly/CnCClick](http://bit.ly/CnCClick)

   1.  Next we have to add our action:

      1.  Inside of the click event handler we need to add the function to run the action we’re going to do.  This is similar to how we created the function to run when the document is ready.
      2.  Inside of that function, this time we’re going to need the input’s parent element: the label.  **Hint:** [bit.ly/CnCparent](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCparent&sa=D&ust=1478465001125000&usg=AFQjCNE4INDAs5xRmmQl2TP1uUcO0N0qNg)
      3.  We only want the color to show when the box is checked. There are a few ways to do this and often changing styling you’d use the `.css()` method: [bit.ly/CnCCSS](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCCSS&sa=D&ust=1478465001126000&usg=AFQjCNGX4XkLprOujxC6Yb72j_nna1rLVw).  This time since we want to add and remove it we’re just going to toggle the CSS styling class using the jQuery method `toggleClass()` Hint: [bit.ly/ToggleC](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/ToggleC&sa=D&ust=1478465001127000&usg=AFQjCNE_zKIpUHHNGJONJhbO2zFA_W4qng)  We’ve already set up the highlight class for you in the **assets/styles/main.css** file.

1.  **EXTRA CREDIT:** Make clicking the &quot;Order&quot; button get the value from the name radio button input and display it in an h1 tag inside the light purple div as &quot;{{name}}&#039;s order is ready!&quot;

    1.  First capture the event on the Order button:

      1.  Select the Order button like we’ve selected the show and hide buttons above. (check out index.html to find the button’s id to select)
      2.  Add the click event handler to the button Hint: [bit.ly/CnCClick](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCClick&sa=D&ust=1478465001130000&usg=AFQjCNE9sKnrtJJdiDZGcwrRkpyOAwaCvg)

  1.  Next we have to add our action but this time we’re going to have to save the name value so we can use it again later.

      1.  Create your **orderName** variable.  Remember when you declare a variable you must start with the `var` keyword!
      2.  We need to capture the radio button input’s value in this variable  so let’s get it selected!  Note: we only need to store the value for the input element that is “checked.” **Hint 1:** [bit.ly/CnCRadio](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCRadio&sa=D&ust=1478465001132000&usg=AFQjCNFkmjVHQ0WwM9G63fZV5-bX8fqeJw) **Hint 2:** [bit.ly/CnCChecked](http://bit.ly/CnCChecked) **Hint 3:** [bit.ly/CnCVal](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://bit.ly/CnCVal&sa=D&ust=1478465001133000&usg=AFQjCNEOLMx1XT212cHayeyAbhTunDflNg) **Hint 4:** `var myVar = $("input:input-type:checked").method();`
      3.  Once you’ve stored the value in your variable you can check the value in Chrome’s Developer Tools Console tab using `console.log(orderName);` in your script file.  When you trigger that event the variable’s value will then be displayed to the console. **Hint:** [bit.ly/CnCOutput](http://bit.ly/CnCOutput)
      4.  Now that we have captured the value, we need to display that in our div section.  There are again multiple ways to do this: the `append()` method: [bit.ly/CnCAppend](http://bit.ly/CnCAppend)  and the `html()` method: [bit.ly/CnCHTML](http://bit.ly/CnCHTML), though one of these is a better choice than the other. Can you figure out why one of these is a better option?  Talk it over with a mentor if you aren’t sure! **Hint:** Try both options and push the order button multiple times for each to see what happens!

          1.  First select the **div** section you want to act on.  (find the id of the element in the **index.html** file and select it)
          2.  Next we’ll use append or html to add the **h1** tag and content inside the div.  See the “JavaScript String Operators” section of the JavaScript Operators page: [bit.ly/CnCOps](http://bit.ly/CnCOps) for a reminder on how to use your variable with other static text.

1.  When you’ve worked through each piece of interaction, compare your code to our answer key here: [bit.ly/CnCJQKey](http://bit.ly/CnCJQKey)

![](../images/drink.png)
